---
layout    : post
title     : Realism
permalink : /realism/
---

> Stable patterns in [GoL][life] are hard not to notice, especially the ones that move.
> It is natural to think of them as persistent entities, but remember that a CA
> is made of cells; there is no such thing as a toad or a loaf. Gliders and
> other spaceships are even less real because they are not even made up of the
> same cells over time. So these patterns are like constellations of stars. We
> perceive them because we are good at seeing patterns, or because we have
> active imaginations, but they are not real.
> 
> Right?
> 
> Well, not so fast. Many entities that we consider “real” are also persistent
> patterns of entities at a smaller scale. Hurricanes are just patterns of air
> flow, but we give them personal names. And people, like gliders, are not made
> up of the same cells over time. But even if you replace every cell in your
> body, we consider you the same person.
> 
> This is not a new observation—about 2500 years ago Heraclitus pointed out that
> you can’t step in the same river twice—but the entities that appear in the
> Game of Life are a useful test case for thinking about philosophical realism.
> 
> In the context of philosophy, realism is the view that entities in the world
> exist independent of human perception and conception. By “perception” I mean
> the information that we get from our senses, and by “conception” I mean the
> mental model we form of the world. For example, our vision systems perceive
> something like a 2-D projection of a scene, and our brains use that image to
> construct a 3-D model of the objects in the scene.
> 
> Scientific realism pertains to scientific theories and the entities they
> postulate. A theory postulates an entity if it is expressed in terms of the
> properties and behavior of the entity. For example, Mendelian genetics
> postulates a “gene” as a unit that controls a heritable characteristic.
> Eventually we discovered that genes are encoded in DNA, but for about 50
> years, a gene was just a postulated entity.

&mdash; Allen B. Downey, [Think Complexity][book]


[life]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Conway's_Game_of_Life
[book]: http://www.greenteapress.com/compmod/html/book008.html#htoc59
