---
layout    : post
title     : The oldest known building
permalink : /oldest-known-building/
---

> **The oldest known building is a place called [Göbekli Tepe](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Göbekli_Tepe) in Turkey. It’s a
> funny place because it didn’t have a proper roof or walls, and there’s no
> evidence at all that people ever lived there.** Nor are there any traces of
> residential properties thereabouts.

> This makes sense as Göbekli Tepe dates from about 10,000 BC, which is before
> humans settled down to agriculture. So the place appears to have been made by
> hunter-gatherers as a kind of temple. It’s a big place and the slabs of stone
> used to make it weighed up to 16 tons. So a lot of different tribes would have
> to have gathered there to put it all together.

> **There are some big stone tubs in Göbekli Tepe — the biggest held about 40
> *gallons — and they contain traces of a chemical called _oxalate_, which is
> *formed when barley and water are mixed.** When barley and water are mixed, beer
> *quite naturally ferments. **So it would appear that Göbekli Tepe was some sort
> *of meeting place where the tribes gathered and drank beer together.** It would
> *be a pleasant place to get whiffled: top of a hill, nice view.

> But it looks like there was beer, and, importantly, it looks like there was beer
> before there were temples and before there was farming. **This leads to the
> great theory of human history: that we didn’t start farming because we wanted
> food — there was loads of that around. We started farming because we wanted
> booze.**

> This makes a lot more sense than you might think, for several reasons. First,
> beer is easier to make than bread as no hot oven is required. Second, beer
> contains vitamin B, which humans require if they’re going to be healthy and
> strong. Hunters get their vitamin B by eating other animals. **On a diet of
> bread and no beer, grain farmers will all turn into anaemic weaklings and be
> killed by the big healthy hunters. But fermentation of wheat and barley produces
> vitamin B.**

> If beer was worth travelling for (which Göbekli Tepe suggests it was) and if
> beer was a religious drink (which Göbekli Tepe suggests it was), then even the
> most ardent huntsman might be persuaded to settle down and grow some good barley
> to brew it with.

> **And so in about 9000 BC, we invented farming because we wanted to get drunk on
> *a regular basis.**

&mdash; [_A Short History of Drunkenness_](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35074090)